# Project Idea Proposal

Group 3 has decided to create a database index of data from a
fictional world. We will attempt to do this for the world created in
legendary author J.R.R. Tolkien’s works: The Lord of the Rings, The
Hobbit, and The Silmarillion. If for some reason (size, accessibility,
etc), we are not able to use this world, we will adapt our process to
collect data from another world/worlds.

We will design a web crawler to crawl websites that contain data about
characters, their details, locations in the world, and other
information gathered from plot points and stories told in these works.
We will begin by crawling a large and popular online Wiki located at
http://lotr.wikia.com, known as “The One Wiki to Rule Them All”. This
wiki is populated by fans with data from all of the literature behind
this world, including not only the original books but other canonical
media such as the popular and successful movie series from the 2000s.
Each character has a wiki page which describes any known information
about their timeline, city/town of origin, actors that have portrayed
them in media, relationships to other characters, and important plot
points among the immense library of information that is available.

We will index this data using Lucene first, and later using Hadoop. We
will compared the performance of these alternatives.

We have ideas for interesting and creative ways to visualize the data
queried from this database. One of which is to create a map of the
fictional world and plot locations where the characters can be found
at different points of the story, including the paths they traveled
based on what information we can gather. We can also visualize
character relationships by linking them in a graphical interface.
